Learning path(fast): Add adaptive serving guide and codelab. Fixes #765, Fixes #665. (#857)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/fast/adaptive-serving-based-on-network-quality/index.md

---
layout: post
title: Adaptive serving based on network quality
authors:
  - mihajlija
description: |
  Use Network Information API to adapt the assets served to users based on the
  quality of their connection.
codelabs:
  - codelab-adapt-video-to-image-serving-based-on-network-quality
---

Loading a website can be a very different experience depending on the network
conditions. Everything is usually smooth when you are on a fast network, but
when you're on the go with a humble data plan and spotty connection, or stuck

> with a laptop on a sluggish coffee shop wifi, it's a different story.

Author: Added `Wi-Fi` to our guide here: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/wiki/Writing-style#spelling-and-capitalisation

One way to deal with this is by adapting which assets you're serving to users
based on the quality of their connection. This is now possible with the
[Network Information API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Network_Information_API)
which enables web applications to access information about the user's network.

{% Aside %}
  You can see which browsers support [the Network Information API on caniuse.com](https://caniuse.com/#feat=netinfo).
{% endAside %}

## Usage

There are many ways you can use this network information to improve the user
experience:

* Switch between serving high-definition and low-definition content based on the
  user's network. 
* Decide whether to preload resources. 
* Defer uploads and downloads when users are on a slow connection. 
* Enable offline mode if the network quality is not good enough to load the app
  and use the features.

> * Warn users that doing something (e.g. watching video) over cellular could cost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Warn users that doing something (for example, watching video) over cellular could cost
```
